Now I did already mention what exactly Git is
in the first course section.
You should definitely go through that section first
before following along with this section here.
As mentioned there, Git is a version control system
and a tool you can download
and install for free on your machine,
no matter which operating system you're using.
And with Git, you can control and manage your source code.
Most importantly, you can create code snapshots,
so-called commits,
which allow you to go back to an older snapshot
in case you mess something up,
or if you want to take a look
at an older version of your code.
Another important feature would be branches,
which we'll also take a closer look at later
in this section here.
Now in order to use Git and to work with Git,
you must install this Git tool on your system.
And you can simply search for Git
to find its official website,
which is git-scm.com.
And normally, you should already see a download link
on the starting page,
automatically the right link for your operating system.
But you can also go to Downloads here
and then pick your operating system
to download the correct version.
Now when picking your system here,
you typically have different options for installing Git.
For Windows and macOS, you will find installers
which you can use though,
which are simple installation wizards
through which you can walk to install Git.
And in those wizards,
you can simply keep all the default settings,
since that will give you Git in a version
that works just fine.
So make sure that you do download
and install Git on your system.
And once you did that,
you should open up your system terminal
or command prompt or shell,
and in there, type the command git.
If you now hit Enter,
you should see a list of commands you can use
in conjunction with Git.
If you're getting an error that tells you
that Git is an unknown command or anything like that,
you should make sure
that you finished that installation process successfully.
And if you did, you should restart your system
to make sure that this Git tool was installed successfully.
Now as you can tell here,
you get a broad variety of commands that you can use.
And throughout this section,
we'll dive into the most important commands.
I'll say right away
that many commands here are niche commands,
which you don't need too often,
but we will of course cover all important commands,
just as we will cover
the most important GitHub features later.
So with Git installed, we can now use it,
and you do typically use it in your development projects
where you write code to build an app
or a website or a package.